SIG Architecture Intro and Update: AHQD-5609 - events@cncf.io - Thursday, November 19, 2020 3:47 PM - 44 minutes

Participant: wordly [W] English (US)

Transcription for wordly [W]

00:00:00 [W] welcome everyone to keep con North America 2020 excited to give you a presentation today around the interesting Sig with and kubernative Sig architecture and hopefully we can give you a background and how you can get
00:00:15 [W] Within the project is so we go the next slide.
00:00:18 [W] I'm Derek Carr.
00:00:21 [W] I've been active in the communities.
00:00:25 [W] So the slides not progressing John.
00:00:27 [W] There we go.
00:00:30 [W] Alright virtual event.
00:00:31 [W] Well, I'm their car and I work at Red Hat.
00:00:33 [W] I've been active in the communities communities since early Inception presently serve on the steering committee and participate in Sagara texture and Sig node, and I'm joined today.
00:00:44 [W] Bye John.
00:00:46 [W] Hi, I'm John Bell America from Google and I've been involved in since maybe well sir, probably since late 2016, but primarily and Sig Network and then later last year,
00:01:01 [W] Sig architecture, so I've opened up my primary areas of focus awesome.
00:00:49 [W] Well, hopefully with the two of us here, we can do a good job explaining how to engage in kubernative.
00:00:54 [W] Alright, so let's take a step back and like remind everybody about the goals of the kubernative project.
00:01:01 [W] You know, the project is is maturing.
00:01:03 [W] It's it's but it's granted by the goals that we've set out from its Inception right where we wanted communities to be portable across multiple clouds. We want to
00:01:12 [W] to be kind of general purpose not too opinionated.
00:01:15 [W] We want people to find Value in multiple places and that requires us to to meet users where they are. And with that when we design the project and the subsystems within we want to ensure that we offer flexibility extensibility.
00:01:30 [W] Multiple clouds, we want it to be kind of general purpose not too opinionated.
00:01:20 [W] We want people to find Value in multiple places and that requires us to to meet users where they are.
00:01:26 [W] And with that when we design the project and the subsystems within we want to ensure that we offer flexibility extensibility and points of integration or specialization to allow people to ultimately meet
00:01:49 [W] And points of integration or specialization to allow people to ultimately meet their needs as a project.
00:01:56 [W] We Aspire a lot to ensure that most of our procedures and practices are automated rather than manual and we want to always ensure that like as a project.
00:02:07 [W] We don't stagnate and we recognize that users needs and platforms evolve.
00:02:12 [W] And so we want to make sure that we can keep promoting stable evolution of the project. So with those like framing
00:02:19 [W] goals in mind we kind of go to the next slide here and we try to say like, well those are great goals and they hopefully allow the Koreans project to maintain long-term success, but that only works if we back it up with with Community Values
00:02:34 [W] Activities to scale. So one of the earliest things we did with in kubernative was to define a governance model that prioritize distribution of responsibility among various groups within the project
00:02:49 [W] Realizing all decision making within a small few of individuals.
00:02:49 [W] Generally.
00:02:49 [W] We think if you know about networking you should be exercising your domain and networking knowledge and have autonomy within that Sig and same with you no no door or scheduling those people who were closest to that problem space know it best
00:03:04 [W] Same with you no, no door or scheduling those people who were closest to that problem space know it best and when we interface with in the community, we want to make sure that we're representing the community rather than any visual
00:03:17 [W] when we interface with in the community, we want to make sure that we're representing the community rather than individual product or company need because by doing that were ensuring that everyone is is ultimately being successful
00:03:33 [W] A community, you know, we always strive to do better and say God texture is no different than the rest.
00:03:38 [W] So we want to make sure that we're inclusive and hearing everyone's Viewpoint. So if after seeing this presentation, you're inspired to join us in a Sig architecture meeting.
00:03:48 [W] I'm sure John or myself or anybody else who participates with would love to get your feedback and and help make your impact known in the community. And then the key Point here on the committee values when we talked about the project wanting to ensure that it keeps advancing the state of the
00:04:02 [W] The art we need to ensure that like our Community Values evolve and don't stagnate themselves.
00:04:08 [W] So with that context of mind if we go to the next Slide the community project itself, as we said is composed of many sig figs and there's kind of different ways. You can look at Sig some are very horizontally oriented, right?
00:04:23 [W] They deal with the guts of how the communities project itself Works.
00:04:25 [W] maybe the underlying API Machinery or how authentication and then some are more vertically oriented like scheduling the node networking storage. And then we have the specialized kind of a group of cigs, which we
00:04:40 [W] And the project wide perspective and sagarika texture was one of those early cigs that well. It doesn't have individual domain responsibility for any of those horizontal or vertical line areas we do
00:04:40 [W] Jewel domain responsibility for any of those horizontal or vertical align areas we do in aspire to ensure that we can provide sufficient guidance and Lessons
00:04:52 [W] And Lessons Learned across the kubenetes community as a whole to ensure that every individual Sig is not repeating or encountering the same problems. And so today when John I talk through the
00:05:07 [W] What is hopefully you'll see that the projects and practices we have running help keep ensuring that Cube as a whole successful and so the next slide.
00:05:19 [W] Sure. So as is Derek said think architecture fits as a sort of project scope Sig and with that concept of that distribution is better than
00:05:34 [W] We still see this need for consistency and for a consistent bar across the project for that is bar quality and also for things like apis, we have consistent set of conventions that we want to use the apis
00:05:47 [W] And also for things like apis, we have consistent set of conventions that we want to use the apis from Sig Network in the apis from Sig node function essentially the same manner and not just the Machinery but the structure of the API and the conventions around naming things like
00:05:58 [W] Get the conventions around naming and things like that those General API conventions design principles.
00:06:06 [W] We're using declarative apis with these reconciling controllers things like that that are just fundamental to communities those live within this within this think in addition. We work on some of these
00:06:21 [W] Cross-cutting policies so things like how we deprecated features and apis and the process by which we improve communities.
00:06:35 [W] So what are some of the other issues so it happens? Sometimes that that a question will come up through a Sig that the Sig doesn't know how to answer.
00:06:46 [W] They don't they want to make sure that it works in a consistent manner across what other things may be doing and those sort of things will come to Sig architecture to make decisions about or have discussions about sometimes Sig will disagree
00:07:01 [W] I agree and you know at times they brought that to us as an escalation.
00:07:05 [W] We're really not an escalation point because again distribution is better than centralization.
00:07:09 [W] We're not we're not loading over all the other six you're setting policies across the project. And so when those things come to us, we're not going to be overriding Sig decisions, but we might be doing is
00:07:24 [W] How those decisions might be made, you know in or what principles apply that might be repeatable within that decision-making process.
00:07:28 [W] So
00:07:31 [W] the not sure what this last bullet is here.
00:07:35 [W] You can put it on here, but in general we do like to salute to solicit feedback from anybody in order to do that.
00:07:44 [W] You start a thread on our mailing list just like architecture you happy to join it.
00:07:49 [W] once we've got a thread going we try and resolve we can't on there before. We actually talked about it a meeting to try and not be respectful of everybody's time.
00:08:01 [W] So some projects and we have five sub projects within within SQL Protection One is the API review some project which essentially
00:08:16 [W] All of those conventions and design principles or out the API and also runs an actual review process where every time there's a PR that comes in that touches an API.
00:08:28 [W] Reviewers and approvers who will review that change make sure that it's adhering to those conventions and often give very good advice around how to improve your API. So it's
00:08:25 [W] we see great results out of we also have a code organization so project so here again is one of these larger structural things that the Sig handles and this is about managing our dependencies and deciding what what pieces of code can be moved out
00:08:40 [W] Managing our dependencies and deciding what what pieces of code can be moved out.
00:08:45 [W] We've got a set of staging repositories that allow us to sort of refactor the code a little more effectively and be able to import the code and other projects more effectively.
00:08:56 [W] So that's all managed by code organization performance definition.
00:09:01 [W] We talked about a little bit earlier.
00:09:02 [W] That's the group that manages the conformance testing process besides which
00:09:08 [W] which tests are to be deemed required for conformance. And in fact defining what kubernative is the enhancements our project
00:09:23 [W] Our to be deemed required for conformance. And in fact dividing what kubernative is the enhancements our project is new since the
00:09:42 [W] since the last few con here, it actually moved over from CPM which shut down and that manages our communities enhancement proposal process, and that means how
00:09:58 [W] Our engineers in the community can sort of get consensus around features that they want to build an ad and how we can manage the the progression of those features through Alpha Beta
00:10:14 [W] Which the the progression of those features through Alpha Beta And stable release and ensure the quality of our as an adjunct to that.
00:10:24 [W] We've also recently added this production Readiness review project which runs a process something like the API review process, but it's not reviewing code.
00:10:34 [W] Generally. It's reviewing a subspecialist section of the cap. So we've defined a set of questions that
00:10:42 [W] that you that the developers must answer to ensure that the pieces of functionality and features were adding two communities meet a bar of support available.
00:10:55 [W] Awesome.
00:10:56 [W] Well, thanks John.
00:10:56 [W] So many folks who are new to engage in with kubernetes when we talk about these sub projects.
00:11:04 [W] They are literally like dedicated meetings. That folks can join and participate in if they have a particular interest and so while Sig architecture meets at a Sig wide level
00:11:20 [W] Many folks who are new to engage in with kubernetes when we talk about these sub projects.
00:11:27 [W] They are literally like dedicated meetings. That folks can join and participate in if they have a particular interest and so while Sig architecture meets at a Sig wide level
00:11:54 [W] We Cadence and topics for that meeting are usually generated through the mailing list individual sub projects with John gave an overview on have discrete meeting times to just focus on that particular activity as well.
00:12:09 [W] that we can talk about was around APA review a lot of people who engage with the communities appreciate the fact that it has a relatively consistent API perspective API review as a thing in the project
00:12:23 [W] I think that.
00:12:26 [W] was ultimately something that very few reviewers within the community had maybe the overall breadth of awareness and knowledge in the early formation of communities to ensure that that consistency happened within the API reviews the project though now, we're trying to figure out
00:12:41 [W] That review process out further but ensure that we don't lower our standards and that as new questions arise that we document those outcomes.
00:12:46 [W] So there's a project board if you're interested in checking out the activities that take place in that sub-project and as well, if you're just interested in understanding like the design philosophy around apis and changing your apis that kubernative.
00:13:01 [W] We document those outcomes. So there's a project board if you're interested in checking out the activities that take place in that sub-project and as well, if you're just interested in understanding like the design philosophy around apis
00:13:53 [W] First follow even in your own extension projects which we talk about later like as an ecosystem.
00:13:58 [W] It's great if we can all be aligned.
00:14:00 [W] I strongly encourage everyone to look at our API conventions documents like really deep and thorough and can help people build apis that fit kubernative style. Even when they're not in the communities project
00:14:15 [W] View is required for anything that is in the main kubernative kubenetes distribution. So when we talk about the goal of the community being portable right no matter where you procure communities you want it to work because this consistently
00:14:30 [W] Is that there's a growing ecosystem of projects around kubernative.
00:14:31 [W] And so you might have seen some things come up around things like the usage of the Kate style API name Space versus say like x - k8s iot and space and so where we talk through things around what things are subject API review and the
00:14:46 [W] That's a lot of things that you might see in this project and we would love participation.
00:14:49 [W] but there's a lot of great lessons and things to learn so we can go the next slide code organization is John talked about like kubenetes was originally just one massive repo right kubernative kubernative.
00:15:03 [W] He's and we are building on the output of many other open source communities to openly do what we do in kubernative right whether that is some our earliest
00:15:14 [W] These were see advisor or run C or Docker or any of the other projects. You might see get vendored into a typical go project. Well over time this gets this just gets crazy and it slows down progress
00:15:29 [W] Because you have a lot of folks all trying to work within one mono repo and getting been during alignment to work.
00:15:34 [W] Well is sometimes difficult and then you sometimes have challenges where people try to consume individual libraries or subsystems within kubernative Xin, they're discrete projects and they don't want to bring the entire culinary Source tree with them.
00:15:46 [W] And so I would say in the last apartment for a long time. Even the last year or two. We've gotten probably far more disciplined on our approach to this and so the code organization sub-project.
00:15:56 [W] Of was born out of that desire to realize.
00:15:59 [W] Oh we got to do things better.
00:16:01 [W] And so basically if you're interested in like taking a very large go project in figuring out the best way to structure it across a reasonable number of repositories that all of us in the community can follow
00:16:16 [W] Nations sub-project kind of was born out of that desire to realize.
00:16:12 [W] Oh we got to do things better.
00:16:14 [W] And so basically if you're interested in like taking a very large go project and figuring out the best way to structure it across a reasonable number of repositories that all of us in the community can follow
00:16:44 [W] this is this is the place for you and as well as if you're interested in consuming particular sub systems within communities for use in your project that may not be well factored yet
00:16:59 [W] Factored yet to meet your need.
00:17:02 [W] I think everyone in the community wants to help others, but they want to help it in a way that they know that they're providing that help on and so making those those issues.
00:17:11 [W] no can help us figure out then as John talked about earlier what things we should maybe promote into their own discrete repo that you can depend on without the whole thing.
00:17:20 [W] So that's that's code organization and going the next one.
00:17:25 [W] Conformance tests and promotion.
00:17:28 [W] So this is a process that is important and one that is ever evolving.
00:17:36 [W] So kubernative rapidly expanded in its earliest formations and they actual set of project typically many things had e2e testing, right?
00:17:47 [W] We want to make sure the feature worked but not everything was labeled as conformant and for a variety.
00:17:54 [W] We have good reasons, right there were maybe integration specific to particular Cloud platforms that were not asleep portable and but you still want to make sure that that function worked, right?
00:18:06 [W] And so while we have a very large and Rich body of ete testing within the project and of course these things can always improve that which was required to be portable across everywhere. You can consume granese is is a smaller set
00:18:22 [W] You know has to be expanded judiciously, right?
00:18:24 [W] And so the conformance tests and promotions that project is basically evaluating that problem, right?
00:18:31 [W] How do we identify the right set of tests the right set of function that should and must be portable across all areas of which you can consume kubenetes and then where we had maybe
00:18:46 [W] Where we lack sufficient testing we are now trying to go back and say well what can we do to supplement the those gaps within our testing and then on afford going basis?
00:18:48 [W] How do we ensure that our project postures in positions? Like don't allow those gaps to reinsert them back reinsert themselves back.
00:18:55 [W] So one of the key things that came out of Sig architecture was like this is clarifying statement that like, you know, you need to have these two
00:19:03 [W] tests before you can promote your feature to Beta right?
00:19:07 [W] They might not be labeled yet for conformance. But they're at least in the project and ready to go in case we know things actually are being properly tested.
00:19:15 [W] So if you're interested in helping Define and enhance and enrich what kubernative means no matter where you consume it, the conformance tests and promotion
00:19:30 [W] Great place to engage with that and the last sub-project. He was around enhancements history lesson of communities is sometimes useful, which is we had a small group of Engineers kind of collaborating and we kind of
00:19:42 [W] let's read some design documents on what we want to do, but that wasn't really very formal and then we kind of evolved that a little bit and we stuck things in a cube Community repo and kind of through our ideas out there had an ad hoc way of
00:19:47 [W] Consensus among the maintainer community and then as you can imagine over years kubenetes just grown right?
00:19:54 [W] and so we needed to scale that process. And so now we have this enhancement sub-project where we have a standard enhancement template that says, this is the change I want to make this is how that change can be tracked by the release team.
00:20:08 [W] team. This is how we know that a test was being implemented and executed for this.
00:20:13 [W] Osment this is how we can appropriately document things got into the website documentation.
00:20:20 [W] So our users know how to consume the future and then a clear set of like what is the use case my features trying to do what component areas does it impact and then with from that we can kind of build a map of like helping you navigate the community to know these
00:20:36 [W] Document things got into the website documentation.
00:20:38 [W] So our users know how to consume the future and then a clear set of like what is the use case? My feature is trying to do what component areas does it impact and then with from that we can kind of build a map of like helping you navigate the community to know these
00:21:04 [W] Approve. These are the things you need to go and gauge and ultimately hopefully get your feature idea into the project.
00:21:12 [W] I would say that this is this is a an Ever evolving process.
00:21:19 [W] I think we've learned a lot and John would agree as we go through caps on on how things are.
00:21:24 [W] And so if you wanted to write a cap or you've reviewed a kept or you've read a cap where you have a new idea if you want to suggest a tweak or a change to the process.
00:21:35 [W] Please engage for the enhancements that project because we're always trying to figure out ways to better automate this and drive attention to it.
00:21:42 [W] And so with that go ahead run.
00:21:45 [W] So along those lines one thing that was recently added to the Gap process was the idea of production production Readiness where he is, so I mentioned this a little bit earlier, but these really tries to get you know,
00:22:01 [W] Developers in our community are you know top-notch professional folks, but they're also developers meeting.
00:22:07 [W] They think about their users and how their users are going to make use of these features to to do whatever it's going to do.
00:22:15 [W] Those users are typically application developers that they're thinking about because there's other features are mostly building for so production Readiness review is intended to to shift to shift the thinking
00:22:30 [W] Um who doesn't necessarily care about the specific features that there that might be offered by a Sig, but they care about making sure those features are working properly.
00:22:40 [W] So how can the operator best ensure that whenever you're adding is serving you or your users?
00:22:49 [W] So typically what that means is making sure you've got good metrics making sure that you have a way to turn the feature along with making sure that you can roll.
00:22:59 [W] Oh back the feature making sure that those metrics can tell you not only that the features in use but that is actually working as expected.
00:23:09 [W] So that's some of the the set of questions now that are part of the cap process.
00:23:16 [W] And essentially there's questions are broken down into when you're going to Alpha.
00:23:20 [W] Here's the things you have to have already figured out when you're going to Beta here's the things you have to already figured out. Here's when you're going to stable and with the bar obviously notching up each step of the way.
00:23:30 [W] And like API review there's a set of set of community members who are PR are approvers and they actually will need to look over the answers to those questions and
00:23:45 [W] Author of the cap to make sure that the questions meet meet the needs of operators and view of this process.
00:23:46 [W] So this is pretty new.
00:23:48 [W] We've piloted in 119 and 120 and it will be mandatory in 121.
00:23:56 [W] So folks that are writing caps.
00:23:59 [W] more or less made a Tory to write it in 120, but it wasn't a blocking thing if you can get approved. I'm 121 now, we will potentially be
00:24:09 [W] lock advancing your cat for concluding in the release unless you fill this out to our satisfaction.
00:24:15 [W] Of course, we will work with you in any way we can to make sure that the feature needs that needs the market and I don't think for most folks.
00:24:27 [W] It's a hard part of meat. It's just now we have it documented now operators that and providers that consume communities and distribute communities actually have a play ball building.
00:24:39 [W] Right there for how to handle certain situations.
00:24:44 [W] Thanks when John so like maybe one way we can think about kubenetes now is like obviously it's a
00:24:55 [W] It's a container orchestration system at heart but it has grown to be kind of more than that.
00:25:00 [W] Right.
00:25:00 [W] Just now we have a documented now operators that and providers that consume communities and distribute communities actually have a Playbook building right there for how to handle certain situations.
00:25:05 [W] That's when John so like maybe one way we can think about kubenetes now is like obviously it's a
00:25:16 [W] It's a container orchestration system at heart but it has grown to be kind of more than that.
00:25:21 [W] Right.
00:25:21 [W] It's basically a platform for building higher or platforms.
00:25:24 [W] One of the things that we often experience in kubernative, whether it's at the individual discrete signal level or those who want to engage with sagarika texture is, you know, folks have great ideas, right? They want to use the enhancement process
00:25:58 [W] Screwed Sigma level or those who want to engage with sagarika texture is you know, folks have great ideas, right? They want to use the enhancement process to propose their new feature. They're ready to sign up for their production rightness review
00:26:15 [W] Was there a new feature they're ready to sign up for their production rightness review.
00:26:20 [W] They got their API all spectro out.
00:26:21 [W] They want to get their API review and they're just you know ready to go. And so John I heard that you had an idea for an awesome feature. You want to add to kubernative A's and maybe we could kind of talk through a right way of navigating.
00:26:37 [W] Is and maybe we could kind of talk through a right way of navigating your interaction with the community.
00:26:45 [W] Yeah, absolutely.
00:26:46 [W] So I have I have a little side project I got going where I'm trying to build build my own launch platform for rockets that go to the moon and that the thing is that I haven't been able to build the rocket, you know
00:27:01 [W] You know quite quite good enough to reach the moon except if I time it just right so that you know, the rocket will reach the moon writers its closest approach to Earth.
00:27:12 [W] So I was thinking that I would build a model that models the the orbit of the moon and when it and how long it will take the rocket to get there and then calculate exactly when the rocket needs to watch,
00:27:27 [W] Tell me is it you know with Cron job.
00:27:31 [W] All I can do is schedule like these periodic intervals, right?
00:27:33 [W] I can't plug that in like how do I want to build my own controller that can model, you know can include oh my own scheduler that whatever it is.
00:27:42 [W] Do you tell me I want to build something so that I can fire at the right time.
00:27:47 [W] And you know, it's Rockets you're dealing with right. So I assume the user is you're working with or your community. You're representing are probably a
00:27:58 [W] both important and full of cash and Engineering know-how to want to make this possible right? And also you want to get that rocket to space so you probably want to be able to deliver that value to your user at a
00:28:13 [W] So maybe what we could do is ask is that the right thing to get into kubernative?
00:28:10 [W] he's so if you go to the next slide, I think as a kubernative community like our goal with engaging with you John is like we want to make you successful.
00:28:21 [W] We don't want you to be bottlenecked on our API review process on the cap process on the production Readiness process if like that feature isn't broadly applicable to everyone.
00:28:35 [W] Who potentially could be consuming communities now?
00:28:37 [W] I'm a little anxious that the use case you describe might be very, you know, bespoke but still important but one thing to keep in mind is like when you're asking to make a change of that magnitude like a new workload can troller a new fundamental capability when we
00:28:52 [W] Beta stable progression that takes time right that sometimes is measured in order of a year, maybe a little bit more because you're going through discreetly spirits.
00:28:56 [W] And so it's actually often better. If you can fulfill your use case using one of the building blocks that kubernative already exposes without Unity get it into the core of communities, right because as we said distributions better
00:29:11 [W] Centralization.
00:29:05 [W] I don't want you to be successful.
00:29:06 [W] If if and only if we bless your use case in the communities project so so that to that concept I would say one of the things in the community we've done is is listen closely for where new extensions are needed.
00:29:21 [W] So let's maybe go to the next slide we can talk through your example, right?
00:29:25 [W] So like your you have a new API design you have a new model.
00:29:29 [W] It sounds like a variant on jobs. Like have you looked at seared? He's have you are you familiar?
00:29:34 [W] ER with that concept and what they would provide no tell me more about that.
00:29:38 [W] I don't know. I I've never all I heard is kubenetes is really great and really solid and I want to make sure that it can do what I needed to do.
00:29:48 [W] So. Yeah, so like we have a lot of built-in apis and kubernative that you're probably familiar with things like pods in the job thing you were looking at but like there's a there's a scope to what we offer within the community and then an ability for you to kind of
00:30:03 [W] Yourself, right?
00:30:01 [W] So one of the capabilities that was added was this thing's called custom resource definitions, right? So you can define a schema for your new job type and you can then use you can tell that to kubernative.
00:30:13 [W] This is my schema and then you can produce instances of that object and right controllers against that so if you want to use like kubernative is as a platform to build controllers over an arbitrary data model and you want it to follow
00:30:28 [W] Principles, I think I would encourage you to look at custom research definitions and experiment outside of bourbon, and he's first so you're saying I could build something that works almost just like a built-in type with
00:30:34 [W] It's like Cron job, but I wouldn't have to modify communities itself.
00:30:34 [W] Yes, and you could be very successful for you and your users without being necessarily gate keeped by the project overall Pace in community and there's some other things like you talk about you want to go to
00:30:49 [W] Hey some Community.
00:30:49 [W] There's some other things like you talk about you want to go to operate those things, right?
00:30:53 [W] So there's nothing you probably want to use the CLI to like figure out what's going on with this object. Right?
00:31:00 [W] Like you call people get pods and you know, your things running. So one of the things that we've done is you can now, you know,
00:31:08 [W] Using that custom resource definition kind of advertise how it gets displayed in the CLI user experience.
00:31:17 [W] So like if there's particular attributes you want to show about when that rocket needs to launch or when that job needs to run. I think you could you can make your users very happy and your operators very happy by exploring that
00:31:32 [W] now
00:31:34 [W] I don't think there's anything particular about your use case that requires custom scheduling and I'm afraid to ask them too much detail, but I would say like if we if we stop poking on John's custom example, there's a lot of other areas within kubernative so that people can extend and
00:31:49 [W] Our code base into the core of kubenetes itself.
00:31:51 [W] And I think as a as a project Community, we spent a lot of time trying to ensure that those can be successful building on top of us or around us and that we recognize there might be exit points where not everything has been defined
00:32:06 [W] And that we recognize there might be exit points where not everything has been defined.
00:32:07 [W] But if John had an alternative example where he could identify a particular use case or Nuance, that's broadly applicable that would Empower him to do something else.
00:32:17 [W] I would say come in a Sig architecture to talking through your initial challenge or thought is is is a good thing. But our first reaction will be to try to ask if we have the right tools.
00:32:30 [W] And mechanisms in place to enable you to be successful by building on top of rather than within kubernative.
00:32:39 [W] So, thanks John for placating there.
00:32:45 [W] Yep, go ahead John.
00:32:46 [W] So then the question is where do we go from here?
00:32:49 [W] So really the entire Community has been focused and these extensions that Derek was just talking about we really want to make sure that we have the right extension points.
00:33:02 [W] And so there's a big focus on that continues to be and those extension points work as much as possible like built-in types. We also continuing to
00:33:14 [W] Build out coverage and conformance and we're trying to improve the quality of the dot 0 release and we're sort of trying to improve the overall flow of features through this system.
00:33:27 [W] Really the entire Community has been focused on these extensions that Derek was just talking about.
00:33:33 [W] we really want to make sure that we have the right extension points.
00:33:38 [W] And and so there's a big focus on that continues to be and those extension points work as much as possible like built-in times.
00:33:45 [W] also continuing to build up coverage and conformance and we're trying to improve the quality of the dot 0 release and we're sort
00:33:57 [W] Of trying to improve the overall flow of features through this system. So we have a something that was recently added where things need to go to GA at some point.
00:34:07 [W] We've had too many things that linger in beta for years and that's a problem for us.
00:34:12 [W] So these are the main things we're looking at as well as you know, ensuring the project continues to scale and and we also make sure that that that kept rastas work.
00:34:25 [W] So, how can you participate in this as well as Derek mention come to our meetings? We have a community meeting every other week.
00:34:33 [W] That's for the general Sig architecture. And then most of our projects also have their the schedules are out there on the community schedule and we are really
00:34:49 [W] Also, make sure that that that can process work.
00:34:54 [W] So, how can you participate in this well, as Derek mentioned come to our meetings. We have a community meeting every other week.
00:35:01 [W] That's for the general Sig architecture. And then most of our projects also have their the schedules are other are on the schedule and we are really
00:35:18 [W] Thank you very much.
00:35:19 [W] All right. Well, thank you, and hopefully we're here to answer questions like now, so thanks again.
00:35:37 [W] Alright Hello everybody.
00:35:40 [W] Welcome.
00:35:41 [W] I don't see any questions in our QA yet.
00:35:44 [W] But please feel free to ask anything anything. You may need to know.
00:35:54 [W] Yeah, like John I don't see anything either but just want to thank those who took the time to watch and hopefully learn some details about how the City Works.
00:36:03 [W] So if you're not comfortable asking a question here, feel free to reach us on overnight Slack.
00:36:11 [W] So I see when questions come in would end users be a good thing on PR are if I understand the question, it's it's whether having end-users participate in their production ready as we review process
00:36:26 [W] That would be useful.
00:36:26 [W] Absolutely one of production Ready Mixed reviews themselves.
00:36:32 [W] Don't need you to dig deep into code or anything.
00:36:35 [W] They're really about asking the questions are the things.
00:36:41 [W] talked about a little bit on the video like, you know, what's the what are the feature Gates which components you need to configure those feature Gates on in order to turn this on and off?
00:36:49 [W] What metric should we be looking at? What are the common failure scenarios or
00:36:55 [W] Potential failure scenarios and what do I do about them if they have them?
00:36:58 [W] So those kind of questions are definitely things if I end user you mean operator cluster operator, then absolutely that would be wonderful. We could definitely use more participation there
00:37:13 [W] Would love to have you join.
00:37:17 [W] John is I think the way the production Readiness reviews
00:37:26 [W] distinct from any
00:37:42 [W] yeah, it's letter from there.
00:37:45 [W] I don't either I'll pass happen.
00:37:49 [W] We have another question here.
00:37:54 [W] How do you maintain long-term compliance with the architectural guidelines that you set the so many developers and users having many different ideas that might cause the architecture of the product to dis converge.
00:38:04 [W] That's a great question.
00:38:05 [W] In fact that I would say probably the primary way that that happens is one cigs.
00:38:14 [W] The Sig leadership has a good idea of how the architecture works and they take a long time to move up in the ladder should have contributor ladder to be part of the Sig leadership in the Sig leaders will generally be reviewing the caps and the and the code that goes
00:38:29 [W] Comes out of their sins they're saying but probably the backstop is that API review process.
00:38:36 [W] So the API review process is process isn't just you know, it's focused on apis but because the API is so Central to so much of what's done a lot of times.
00:38:48 [W] Insight will come around the overall design of the feature as well in that process, but but caps are required to be approved by generally somebody in
00:39:03 [W] leadership and often
00:39:07 [W] people from other states as well if it's like kind of cross-cutting thing. So it's it's really that keptn process and the APA review process that keep us in line.
00:39:24 [W] If you want to if you have anything to add it directly, welcome to give it a try.
00:39:27 [W] try. We'll see if your body is work. Yeah, I don't give nothing but I would happen.
00:39:33 [W] Yeah, I don't know what happened.
00:39:34 [W] Hopefully you can hear me now. All I was trying to say was that I agree with John that for the pr reviews.
00:39:39 [W] It's all welcome and then the questions tend to be distribution agnostic. So just keep that in mind when engaging with your reviews.
00:39:55 [W] So there's one more question here.
00:39:57 [W] Do you also funnel or accept requirements from orchestration platforms such as openshift or Rancher?
00:40:04 [W] My point is when you're making a decision on the right tool for a company having support is important.
00:40:09 [W] So we're an open community and I mean there are certainly knows openshift and you know folks from Rancher are involved in the
00:40:24 [W] Community. So any absolutely any, you know anything that openshift needs that's critical Derek and his team are going to talk about and and try to bring into the community and long as it's well thought out and it's good
00:40:39 [W] The community as a whole and not some bespoke thing for them which you know, there wouldn't do any way then absolutely absolutely for sure. But, you know all of those platforms,
00:40:54 [W] You know, we are a community.
00:40:56 [W] We're building an open source product, but we're also companies and those companies are competing in their differentiating their products. So you're going to see differences between platforms.
00:41:27 [W] don't know if we see additional questions coming in, but maybe the last comment for that last question is the conformance sub-project is ultimately what we try to use to normalize behaviors across distributions, and
00:41:44 [W] if there's
00:41:48 [W] anybody who's interested in participating in that and helping us improve, you know conformance as discussed across all these distributions that we'd love to feedback.
00:42:04 [W] Yes, this last question. One of this being conflict was cncf. The question was regarding the last statement. When at this be in conflict with cncf external sale restriction of Open Source.
00:42:15 [W] I'm not sure that's referencing to use the kubernative trademark.
00:42:19 [W] You just submit a conformance test Suite result for the cncf and Associate that with your vendors.
00:42:28 [W] Kind of choice.
00:42:29 [W] So whether that's managed communities offerings from clouds, like gke that John is, you know working with from Google or Rancher openshift or any of the other distributions that exists.
00:42:40 [W] It's really just a matter of showing conformance to the conformance with yeah. Exactly.
00:42:48 [W] There's no restriction on packaging the open source. What there's a restriction on is use of the community's trademark and the rule there is
00:42:58 [W] that if you can pass the conformance tests and you submit it through cncf as a process by which you submit your test results, and if you do that, then you're you're good to go on using the community Lane.
00:43:29 [W] All right side looks like the questions have slowed down. Thanks again for those who took the time to engage with us today.
00:43:37 [W] I think the questions were good. And hopefully if you're interested in talking through PR reviews or getting involved in the conformance process don't hesitate to work within Sig architecture.
00:43:48 [W] if you have follow-up questions, we'll be happy to address them and kubernative slack. So thanks again, and thanks John for doing this will be on
00:43:58 [W] There's act maintainer slack that that will be honest. I'll be on for the next 15 minutes or so because well afterwards if you have any additional questions.
